=head1 OVERVIEW

A module for PDL providing some fir filtering.

=cut

=head1 NAME

PDL::DSP::Fir - Finite impulse response filter kernels.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

       use PDL;
       use PDL::DSP::Fir;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The module provides routines to create finite impulse
response (FIR) filter kernels.  For a simple interface for
filtering with this module, see L<PDL::DSP::Fir::Simple>.
The routine L</firwin> returns a filter kernel constructed
from windowed sinc functions. Available filters are lowpass,
highpass, bandpass, and bandreject. The window functions are
in the module L<PDL::DSP::Windows>.

Below, the word B<order> refers to the number of elements in the filter
kernel.

No functions are exported.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 firwin

=head3 Usage

 $kern = firwin({OPTIONS});

Returns a filter kernel (a finite impulse response function)
to be convolved with data. The kernel is built from windowed
sinc functions. With the option C<type =E<gt> 'window'> no
sinc is used, rather the kernel is just the window.

=head3 OPTIONS

=over

=item N   

order of filter.

=item type  

Filter type. Default: lowpass. One of lowpass, highpass, bandpass, 
bandstop, window. Aliases for bandstop are bandreject and notch.

=item fc   

Cutoff frequency for low- and highpass. Must be a number between
0 and 1, which expresses a fraction of the Nyquist frequency.
No default value.

=item fclo, fchi  

Lower and upper cutoff frequencies for bandpass and bandstop filters.
No default values.

=back

All other options to C<firwin> are passed to the function 
L<PDL::DSP::Windows/window>.

=cut
=pod

The following three functions are called by the C<firwin>, but
may also be useful by themselves, for instance, to construct more
complicated filters.

=head2 ir_sinc

  $sinc = ($f_cut, $N);

Return an C<$N> point sinc function with cutoff frequency C<$f_cut>.
C<$f_cut> must be between 0 and 1. With 1 being Nyquist freq.

=cut
=head2 spectral_invert

  $fir_inv = spectral_invert($fir);

Return a fir function whose spectrum is the additive inverse
wrt 1 of the spectrum of fir function C<$fir>.

=cut
=head2 spectral_reverse

  $fir_rev = spectral_reverse($fir);

Return a fir function whose spectrum is the reverse
of the spectrum fir function C<$fir>. That is, the
spectrum is mirrored about the center frequency.
 
=cut
=head1 AUTHOR

John Lapeyre, C<< <jlapeyre at cpan.org> >>

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2012 John Lapeyre.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more information.


=cut
